README.md, before:

## LUCA

Using [MagicSoup](https://pypi.org/project/magicsoup/) to simulate cell evolution.
I organized experiments in more or less self-contained directories.

- [e1_co2_fixing](./e1_co2_fixing) bring cells to fix CO2

### CPU-only Setup

For CPU-only with [conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/):

```
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

### AWS EC2 with GPU

Use one of the [Deep Learning AMIs](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/amis/) with an instance like
`g4dn.xlarge`, `g4dn.2xlarge`, `g5.xlarge`, `g5.2xlarge` (see [G4 instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g4/) and [G5 instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g5/)).
_E.g._ **Deep Learning AMI GPU PyTorch 2.0.0 (Ubuntu 20.04)** has CUDA 12 and conda installed.
After starting the instance you can initialize conda and directly install the environment.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mRcSchwering/luca  # get repo

conda init && source ~/.bashrc  # init conda
conda update -n base conda  # update conda
conda env create -f environment_gpu.yml  # install environment
conda activate luca  # activate envrionment

nvcc --version  # check CUDA version
python -c 'import torch; print(torch.cuda.is_available())'  # check torch was compiled for it
nvidia-smi -l 1  # monitor GPU
```

In [e1_co2_fixing/](./e1_co2_fixing/) on a **g4dn.xlarge** with `magicsoup==0.3.8` and a map size of 128 and around 2k cells
of each 1k genome size
I am seeing ~5.5GB (of 15GB) GPU memory usage, mostly >90% GPU utilisation with short 0% gaps (probably genome translation),
on average ~1s per step (CUDA 12, magicsoup 0.3) ranging from 0.1s to 1.5s depending on number of cells.

### Screen

A little cheatsheet for [Screen](https://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Screen/)
because I always forget the commands.

- `screen -ls` list active sessions
- `screen -S asd` start new session _asd_
- `screen -r asd` return to active session _asd_
- `screen -XS asd quit` kill session _asd_
- when attached to session **Ctrl + A** then **D** to detach from session

Commit message:

moved environment into experiment dir

README.md, after:

## LUCA

Using [MagicSoup](https://pypi.org/project/magicsoup/) to simulate cell evolution.
I organized experiments in more or less self-contained directories.

- [e1_co2_fixing](./e1_co2_fixing) bring cells to fix CO2

### CPU-only Setup

For CPU-only with [conda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/).
Install environment from the desired experiment:

```
# e.g. for e1_co2_fixing
conda env create -f e1_co2_fixing/environment.yml
```

### AWS EC2 with GPU

Use one of the [Deep Learning AMIs](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/amis/) with an instance like
`g4dn.xlarge`, `g4dn.2xlarge`, `g5.xlarge`, `g5.2xlarge` (see [G4 instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g4/) and [G5 instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g5/)).
_E.g._ **Deep Learning AMI GPU PyTorch 2.0.0 (Ubuntu 20.04)** has CUDA 12 and conda installed.
After starting the instance you can initialize conda and directly install the environment.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mRcSchwering/luca  # get repo

conda init && source ~/.bashrc  # init conda
conda update -n base conda  # update conda

# e.g. for e1_co2_fixing experiment
conda env create -f e1_co2_fixing/environment_gpu.yml  # install environment
conda activate luca  # activate envrionment

nvcc --version  # check CUDA version
python -c 'import torch; print(torch.cuda.is_available())'  # check torch was compiled for it
nvidia-smi -l 1  # monitor GPU
```

In [e1_co2_fixing/](./e1_co2_fixing/) on a **g4dn.xlarge** with `magicsoup==0.3.8` and a map size of 128 and around 2k cells
of each 1k genome size
I am seeing ~5.5GB (of 15GB) GPU memory usage, mostly >90% GPU utilisation with short 0% gaps (probably genome translation),
on average ~1s per step (CUDA 12, magicsoup 0.3) ranging from 0.1s to 1.5s depending on number of cells.

### Screen

A little cheatsheet for [Screen](https://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Screen/)
because I always forget the commands.

- `screen -ls` list active sessions
- `screen -S asd` start new session _asd_
- `screen -r asd` return to active session _asd_
- `screen -XS asd quit` kill session _asd_
- when attached to session **Ctrl + A** then **D** to detach from session
